Very popular snacks with people who like
to build muscle are protein chips on one
side and pork rind on the other.
I get a lot of questions about snacks.
My name is John Jquish. I'm a doctor of
biomedical engineering. I probably have
more interesting commentary on these
kinds of things because I'm not in the
snack food business. I'm not in the
bodybuilding business. I'm
just sort of a casual observer who's
trying to be as strong as possible and
help my customers get as strong as
possible. And I want to point out, well,
first of all, snacking in general, I
think, is bad because you lose track of
what you're doing. you lose track of
just the amount of food you're eating. I
would say on days where at the end of
the day I kind of reflect on what I what
I consume during the day and I'm
disappointed with myself
almost every one of those days is
because I decided to just eat some eat
something like outside of a meal and I
pretty much as far as eating solid food
I really only have one of those a day.
It's difficult for me to really answer
because I don't I don't believe in the
snacking thing. However, two very
popular snacks with people who like to
build muscle are protein chips on one
side and pork rind on the other. So,
they're both high in protein. Pork rinds
have some fats. Usually, the protein
chips don't. They have a little bit of
carbohydrate. I think people are
assuming that because health food
companies make the protein chips that
they're healthy and pork rinds, which
are made of pork, are somehow bad. Boy,
is it the other way around. First of
all, protein chips are made of whey
protein, which is only 18% usable by the
body. At the very least, the pork rinds
have 38% of their protein available for
use for protein synthesis because they
have a better makeup, a more compatible
with human nutrition makeup of essential
amino acids. That's really the thing. If
the non-essential amino acids don't
really matter that much because your
body can make those. If they're there in
your food, okay, but if they're not,
then your body makes them and actually
expends more energy doing so. So, you
don't really need to go looking for
those things. Pork rinds, another thing,
they're higher in calorie than the
protein chips will be. And a lot a lot
of people just get nuts about calories.
Um, I think that's that's a that's a
false
it's a false indicator for a couple of
reasons. Uh, and I have some videos
from, you know, I don't know, a couple
months ago about that. But ultimately,
the protein chips, it's not usable
protein
as much as the pork rinds, but you'll
also notice they taste really, really
bad. Now, I also don't think you should
chase taste. So, if I thought the
protein chips were a healthier choice, I
would say, "Yeah, they taste worse, but
you should eat them anyway."
But they perform worse and they taste
worse. So, this is a really easy easy
one. Uh, and you know, in fact, I'm
here. I am filming in Mexico. I had to
be in Mexico for a couple reasons. And,
uh, I couldn't even find protein chips.
I think only Americans are crazy enough
to buy those. Yeah, we're we are
consumers and we like to buy I
mean, if you like them, maybe I guess,
but it's Yeah, it's it's low gradede
food. Switch to pork rinds or I think
the real champion move is just wait for
meal time and then you can eat something
really amazing that didn't have to come
out of a plastic lined bag, which is
another can of worms. But I I hope this
helped. And if you want to comment on
whether I'm right or wrong, let me know
in the comments. And see you on the next
one. If this video helped you, I want
you to subscribe and follow. I'm going
to put out videos on a regular basis. I
think they're going to help a whole lot
of people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights. We've
got the answer for you.